README.md, before:

# cloudflare-python

## Installation

Two methods are provided to install this software.
Use PyPi (see [package](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/cloudflare) details) or GitHub (see [package](https://github.com/cloudflare/python-cloudflare) details).

### Via PyPI

```bash
    $ sudo pip install cloudflare
    $
```

Yes - that simple! (the sudo may not be needed in some cases).

### Via github

```bash
    $ git clone https://github.com/cloudflare/python-cloudflare
    $ cd python-cloudflare
    $ ./setup.py build
    $ sudo ./setup.py install
    $
```

Or whatever variance of that you want to use.
There is a Makefile included.

## CloudFlare API version 4

The CloudFlare API can be found [here](https://api.cloudflare.com/).
Each API call is provided via a similarly named function within the _CloudFlare_ class.
A full list is provided below.

## Getting Started

A very simple listing of zones within your account; including the IPv6 status of the zone.

```python
import CloudFlare

def main():
    cf = CloudFlare.CloudFlare()
    zones = cf.zones.get(params = {'per_page':50})
    for zone in zones:
        zone_name = zone['name']
        zone_id = zone['id']
        settings_ipv6 = cf.zones.settings.ipv6.get(zone_id)
        ipv6_status = settings_ipv6['value']
        settings_ssl = cf.zones.settings.ssl.get(zone_id)
        ssl_status = settings_ssl['value']
        print zone_id, ssl_status, ipv6_status, zone_name

if __name__ == '__main__':
    main()
```

A more complex example follows.

```python
import sys
import CloudFlare

def main():
    zone_name = 'example.com'

    cf = CloudFlare.CloudFlare()

    # query for the zone name and expect only one value back
    try:
        zones = cf.zones.get(params = {'name':zone_name,'per_page':1})
    except CloudFlare.CloudFlareAPIError as e:
        exit('/zones.get %d %s - api call failed' % (e, e))
    except Exception as e:
        exit('/zones.get - %s - api call failed' % (e))

    # extract the zone_id which is needed to process that zone
    zone = zones[0]
    zone_id = zone['id']

    # request the DNS records from that zone
    try:
        dns_records = cf.zones.dns_records.get(zone_id)
    except CloudFlare.CloudFlareAPIError as e:
        exit('/zones/dns_records.get %d %s - api call failed' % (e, e))

    # print the results - first the zone name
    print zone_id, zone_name

    # then all the DNS records for that zone
    for dns_record in dns_records:
        r_name = dns_record['name']
        r_type = dns_record['type']
        r_value = dns_record['content']
        r_id = dns_record['id']
        print '\t', r_id, r_name, r_type, r_value

    exit(0)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    main()
```

## Providing CloudFlare Username and API Key

When you create a _CloudFlare_ class you can pass up to four paramaters.

 * Account email
 * Account API key
 * Optional Origin-CA Certificate Token
 * Optional Debug flag (True/False)

```python
import CloudFlare

    # A minimal call - reading values from environment variables or configuration file
    cf = CloudFlare.CloudFlare()

    # A minimal call with debug enabled
    cf = CloudFlare.CloudFlare(debug=True))

    # A full blown call with passed basic account information
    cf = CloudFlare.CloudFlare(email='user@example.com', token='00000000000000000000000000000000')

    # A full blown call with passed basic account information and CA-Origin info
    cf = CloudFlare.CloudFlare(email='user@example.com', token='00000000000000000000000000000000', certtoken='v1.0-...')
```

If the account email and API key are not passed when you create the class, then they are retreived from either the users exported shell environment variables or the .cloudflare.cfg or ~/.cloudflare.cfg or ~/.cloudflare/cloudflare.cfg files, in that order.

There is one call that presently doesn't need any email or token certification (the */ips* call); hence you can test without any values saved away.

### Using shell environment variables
```bash
$ export CF_API_EMAIL='user@example.com'
$ export CF_API_KEY='00000000000000000000000000000000'
$ export CF_API_CERTKEY='v1.0-...'
$
```

These are optional environment variables; however, they do override the values set within a configuration file.

### Using configuration file to store email and keys

```bash
$ cat ~/.cloudflare/cloudflare.cfg
[CloudFlare]
email = user@example.com
token = 00000000000000000000000000000000
certtoken = v1.0-...
extras =
$
```

The *CF_API_CERTKEY* or *certtoken* values are used for the Origin-CA */certificates* API calls.
You can leave *certtoken* in the configuration with a blank value (or omit the option variable fully).

The *extras* values are used when adding API calls outside of the core codebase.
Technically, this is only useful for internal testing within CloudFlare.
You can leave *extras* in the configuration with a blank value (or omit the option variable fully).

## Included example code

The *examples* folder contains many examples in both simple and verbose formats.

## A DNS zone code example

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python

import sys
import CloudFlare

def main():
    zone_name = sys.argv[1]
    cf = CloudFlare.CloudFlare()
    zone_info = cf.zones.post(data={'jump_start':False, 'name': zone_name})
    zone_id = zone_info['id']

    dns_records = [
        {'name':'foo', 'type':'AAAA', 'content':'2001:d8b::1'},
        {'name':'foo', 'type':'A', 'content':'192.168.0.1'},
        {'name':'duh', 'type':'A', 'content':'10.0.0.1', 'ttl':120},
        {'name':'bar', 'type':'CNAME', 'content':'foo'},
        {'name':'shakespeare', 'type':'TXT', 'content':"What's in a name? That which we call a rose by any other name ..."}
    ]

    for dns_record in dns_records:
        r = cf.zones.dns_records.post(zone_id, data=dns_record)
    exit(0)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    main()
```

## CLI

All API calls can be called from the command line.
The command will convert domain names on-the-fly into zone_identifier's.

```bash
$ cli4 [-h|--help] [-v|--verbose] [-q|--quiet] [--get|--patch|--post|-put|--delete] [item=value ...] /command...
```

For API calls that need a set of date or parameters passed there is a item=value format.
If you want a numeric value passed, then _==_ can be used to force the value to be treated as a numeric value.

The output from the CLI command is in json format (and human readable).

### Simple CLI examples

 * ```cli4 /user/billing/profile```
 * ```cli4 /user/invites```

 * ```cli4 /zones/:example.com```
 * ```cli4 /zones/:example.com/dnssec```
 * ```cli4 /zones/:example.com/settings/ipv6```
 * ```cli4 --put /zones/:example.com/activation_check```
 * ```cli4 /zones/:example.com/keyless_certificates```

 * ```cli4 /zones/:example.com/analytics/dashboard```

### More complex CLI examples

Here is the creation of a DNS entry, followed by a listing of that entry and then the deletion of that entry.

```bash
$ $ cli4 --post name="test" type="A" content="10.0.0.1" /zones/:example.com/dns_records
{
    "id": "94e028933c87b4bff3c70a42e6daac4f",
    "name": "test.example.com",
    "type": "A",
    "content": "10.0.0.1",
    ...
}
$

$ cli4 /zones/:example.com/dns_records/:test.example.com | jq '{"id":.id,"name":.name,"type":.type,"content":.content}'
{
  "id": "94e028933c87b4bff3c70a42e6daac4f",
  "name": "test.example.com",
  "type": "A",
  "content": "10.0.0.1"
}

$ cli4 --delete /zones/:example.com/dns_records/:test.example.com | jq -c .
{"id":"94e028933c87b4bff3c70a42e6daac4f"}
$
```

There's the ability to handle dns entries with multiple values.
This produces more than one API call within the command.

```
$ cli4 /zones/:example.com/dns_records/:test.example.com | jq -c '.[]|{"id":.id,"name":.name,"type":.type,"content":.content}'
{"id":"bca0c4a5e3691e62841627e4dc3a19ed","name":"test.example.com","type":"A","content":"192.168.0.1"}
{"id":"d94f788e6bf72ba2a54145ad04b34f08","name":"test.example.com","type":"AAAA","content":"2001:d8b::1"}
$
```

Here are the cache purging commands.

```bash
$ cli4 --delete purge_everything=true /zones/:example.com/purge_cache | jq -c .
{"id":"d8afaec3dd2b7f8c1b470e594a21a01d"}
$

$ cli4 --delete files='[http://example.com/css/styles.css]' /zones/:example.com/purge_cache | jq -c .
{"id":"d8afaec3dd2b7f8c1b470e594a21a01d"}
$

$ cli4 --delete files='[http://example.com/css/styles.css,http://example.com/js/script.js]' /zones/:example.com/purge_cache | jq -c .
{"id":"d8afaec3dd2b7f8c1b470e594a21a01d"}
$

$ cli4 --delete tags='[tag1,tag2,tag3]' /zones/:example.com/purge_cache | jq -c .
cli4: /zones/:example.com/purge_cache - 1107 Only enterprise zones can purge by tag.
$
```

A somewhat useful listing of available plans for a specific zone.

```bash
$ cli4 /zones/:example.com/available_plans | jq -c '.[]|{"id":.id,"name":.name}'
{"id":"a577b510288e82b26486fd1df47000ec","name":"Pro Website"}
{"id":"1ac039f6c29b691475c3d74fe588d1ae","name":"Business Website"}
{"id":"94f3b7b768b0458b56d2cac4fe5ec0f9","name":"Enterprise Website"}
{"id":"0feeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee","name":"Free Website"}
$
```

### DNSSEC CLI examples

```bash
$ cli4 /zones/:example.com/dnssec | jq -c '{"status":.status}'
{"status":"disabled"}
$

$ cli4 --patch status=active /zones/:example.com/dnssec | jq -c '{"status":.status}'
{"status":"pending"}
$

$ cli4 /zones/:example.com/dnssec
{
    "algorithm": "13",
    "digest": "41600621c65065b09230ebc9556ced937eb7fd86e31635d0025326ccf09a7194",
    "digest_algorithm": "SHA256",
    "digest_type": "2",
    "ds": "example.com. 3600 IN DS 2371 13 2 41600621c65065b09230ebc9556ced937eb7fd86e31635d0025326ccf09a7194",
    "flags": 257,
    "key_tag": 2371,
    "key_type": "ECDSAP256SHA256",
    "modified_on": "2016-05-01T22:42:15.591158Z",
    "public_key": "mdsswUyr3DPW132mOi8V9xESWE8jTo0dxCjjnopKl+GqJxpVXckHAeF+KkxLbxILfDLUT0rAK9iUzy1L53eKGQ==",
    "status": "pending"
}
$
```

## Implemented API calls

|`GET`   |`PUT`   |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|API call|
|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|:--------|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |        |`DELETE`|/certificates|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/ips|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/organizations|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/organizations/:identifier/firewall/access_rules/rules|
|        |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/organizations/:identifier/invite|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |        |`DELETE`|/organizations/:identifier/invites|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/organizations/:identifier/members|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/organizations/:identifier/railguns|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/organizations/:identifier/railguns/:identifier/zones|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/organizations/:identifier/roles|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/organizations/:identifier/virtual_dns|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/railguns|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/railguns/:identifier/zones|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/user|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/user/billing/history|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/user/billing/profile|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/user/billing/subscriptions/apps|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/user/billing/subscriptions/zones|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/user/firewall/access_rules/rules|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/user/invites|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |`DELETE`|/user/organizations|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/user/virtual_dns|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/zones|
|        |`PUT`   |        |        |        |/zones/:identifier/activation_check|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/zones/:identifier/analytics/colos|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/zones/:identifier/analytics/dashboard|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/zones/:identifier/available_plans|
|        |`PUT`   |        |        |        |/zones/:identifier/custom_certificates/prioritize|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/zones/:identifier/custom_certificates|
|`GET`   |`PUT`   |        |        |        |/zones/:identifier/custom_pages|
|`GET`   |`PUT`   |`POST`  |        |`DELETE`|/zones/:identifier/dns_records|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/firewall/waf/packages/:identifier/groups|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/firewall/waf/packages/:identifier/rules|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/firewall/waf/packages|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/zones/:identifier/firewall/access_rules/rules|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/zones/:identifier/keyless_certificates|
|`GET`   |`PUT`   |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/zones/:identifier/pagerules|
|        |        |        |        |`DELETE`|/zones/:identifier/purge_cache|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/zones/:identifier/railguns/:identifier/diagnose|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/railguns|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/advanced_ddos|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/always_online|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/browser_cache_ttl|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/browser_check|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/cache_level|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/challenge_ttl|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/development_mode|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/email_obfuscation|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/hotlink_protection|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/ip_geolocation|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/ipv6|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/minify|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/mirage|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/mobile_redirect|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/origin_error_page_pass_thru|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/polish|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/prefetch_preload|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/response_buffering|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/rocket_loader|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/security_header|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/security_level|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/server_side_exclude|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/sort_query_string_for_cache|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/ssl|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/tls_1_2_only|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/tls_client_auth|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/true_client_ip_header|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/waf|

## Adding extra API calls manually

Extra API calls can be added via the configuration file
```bash
$ cat ~/.cloudflare/cloudflare.cfg
[CloudFlare]
extras =
    /client/v4/command
    /client/v4/command/:command_identifier
    /client/v4/command/:command_identifier/settings
$
```

While it's easy to call anything within CloudFlare's API, it's not very useful to add items in here as they will simply return API URL errors.
Technically, this is only useful for internal testing within CloudFlare.

## Issues

The following error can be caused by an out of date SSL/TLS library and/or out of date Python.

```
/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/requests/packages/urllib3/util/ssl_.py:318: SNIMissingWarning: An HTTPS request has been made, but the SNI (Subject Name Indication) extension to TLS is not available on this platform. This may cause the server to present an incorrect TLS certificate, which can cause validation failures. You can upgrade to a newer version of Python to solve this. For more information, see https://urllib3.readthedocs.org/en/latest/security.html#snimissingwarning.
  SNIMissingWarning
/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/requests/packages/urllib3/util/ssl_.py:122: InsecurePlatformWarning: A true SSLContext object is not available. This prevents urllib3 from configuring SSL appropriately and may cause certain SSL connections to fail. You can upgrade to a newer version of Python to solve this. For more information, see https://urllib3.readthedocs.org/en/latest/security.html#insecureplatformwarning.
  InsecurePlatformWarning
```

The solution can be found [here](https://urllib3.readthedocs.org/en/latest/security.html#insecureplatformwarning) and/or [here](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/35144550/how-to-install-cryptography-on-ubuntu).

## Python 2.x vs 3.x support

As of May/June 2016 the code is now tested againt pylint.
This was required in order to move the codebase into Python 3.x.
The motivation for this came from [Danielle Madeley (danni)](https://github.com/danni).

While the codebase has been edited to run on Python 3.x, there's not been enough Python 3.x testing performed.
If you can help in this regard; please contact the maintainers.

## Credit

This is based on work by [Felix Wong (gnowxilef)](https://github.com/gnowxilef) found [here](https://github.com/cloudflare-api/python-cloudflare-v4).
It has been seriously expanded upon.

## Copyright

Portions copyright [Felix Wong (gnowxilef)](https://github.com/gnowxilef) 2015 and CloudFlare 2016.

Commit message:

Changed company name to Cloudflare - dropping the capital F

README.md, after:

# cloudflare-python

## Installation

Two methods are provided to install this software.
Use PyPi (see [package](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/cloudflare) details) or GitHub (see [package](https://github.com/cloudflare/python-cloudflare) details).

### Via PyPI

```bash
    $ sudo pip install cloudflare
    $
```

Yes - that simple! (the sudo may not be needed in some cases).

### Via github

```bash
    $ git clone https://github.com/cloudflare/python-cloudflare
    $ cd python-cloudflare
    $ ./setup.py build
    $ sudo ./setup.py install
    $
```

Or whatever variance of that you want to use.
There is a Makefile included.

## Cloudflare name change - dropping the capital F

In Sepember/October 2016 the company modified its company name and dropped the capital F.
However, for now (and for backward compatibility reasons) the class name stays the same.

## Cloudflare API version 4

The Cloudflare API can be found [here](https://api.cloudflare.com/).
Each API call is provided via a similarly named function within the _CloudFlare_ class.
A full list is provided below.

## Getting Started

A very simple listing of zones within your account; including the IPv6 status of the zone.

```python
import CloudFlare

def main():
    cf = CloudFlare.CloudFlare()
    zones = cf.zones.get(params = {'per_page':50})
    for zone in zones:
        zone_name = zone['name']
        zone_id = zone['id']
        settings_ipv6 = cf.zones.settings.ipv6.get(zone_id)
        ipv6_status = settings_ipv6['value']
        settings_ssl = cf.zones.settings.ssl.get(zone_id)
        ssl_status = settings_ssl['value']
        print zone_id, ssl_status, ipv6_status, zone_name

if __name__ == '__main__':
    main()
```

A more complex example follows.

```python
import sys
import CloudFlare

def main():
    zone_name = 'example.com'

    cf = CloudFlare.CloudFlare()

    # query for the zone name and expect only one value back
    try:
        zones = cf.zones.get(params = {'name':zone_name,'per_page':1})
    except CloudFlare.CloudFlareAPIError as e:
        exit('/zones.get %d %s - api call failed' % (e, e))
    except Exception as e:
        exit('/zones.get - %s - api call failed' % (e))

    # extract the zone_id which is needed to process that zone
    zone = zones[0]
    zone_id = zone['id']

    # request the DNS records from that zone
    try:
        dns_records = cf.zones.dns_records.get(zone_id)
    except CloudFlare.CloudFlareAPIError as e:
        exit('/zones/dns_records.get %d %s - api call failed' % (e, e))

    # print the results - first the zone name
    print zone_id, zone_name

    # then all the DNS records for that zone
    for dns_record in dns_records:
        r_name = dns_record['name']
        r_type = dns_record['type']
        r_value = dns_record['content']
        r_id = dns_record['id']
        print '\t', r_id, r_name, r_type, r_value

    exit(0)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    main()
```

## Providing Cloudflare Username and API Key

When you create a _CloudFlare_ class you can pass up to four paramaters.

 * Account email
 * Account API key
 * Optional Origin-CA Certificate Token
 * Optional Debug flag (True/False)

```python
import CloudFlare

    # A minimal call - reading values from environment variables or configuration file
    cf = CloudFlare.CloudFlare()

    # A minimal call with debug enabled
    cf = CloudFlare.CloudFlare(debug=True))

    # A full blown call with passed basic account information
    cf = CloudFlare.CloudFlare(email='user@example.com', token='00000000000000000000000000000000')

    # A full blown call with passed basic account information and CA-Origin info
    cf = CloudFlare.CloudFlare(email='user@example.com', token='00000000000000000000000000000000', certtoken='v1.0-...')
```

If the account email and API key are not passed when you create the class, then they are retreived from either the users exported shell environment variables or the .cloudflare.cfg or ~/.cloudflare.cfg or ~/.cloudflare/cloudflare.cfg files, in that order.

There is one call that presently doesn't need any email or token certification (the */ips* call); hence you can test without any values saved away.

### Using shell environment variables
```bash
$ export CF_API_EMAIL='user@example.com'
$ export CF_API_KEY='00000000000000000000000000000000'
$ export CF_API_CERTKEY='v1.0-...'
$
```

These are optional environment variables; however, they do override the values set within a configuration file.

### Using configuration file to store email and keys

```bash
$ cat ~/.cloudflare/cloudflare.cfg
[CloudFlare]
email = user@example.com
token = 00000000000000000000000000000000
certtoken = v1.0-...
extras =
$
```

The *CF_API_CERTKEY* or *certtoken* values are used for the Origin-CA */certificates* API calls.
You can leave *certtoken* in the configuration with a blank value (or omit the option variable fully).

The *extras* values are used when adding API calls outside of the core codebase.
Technically, this is only useful for internal testing within Cloudflare.
You can leave *extras* in the configuration with a blank value (or omit the option variable fully).

## Included example code

The *examples* folder contains many examples in both simple and verbose formats.

## A DNS zone code example

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python

import sys
import CloudFlare

def main():
    zone_name = sys.argv[1]
    cf = CloudFlare.CloudFlare()
    zone_info = cf.zones.post(data={'jump_start':False, 'name': zone_name})
    zone_id = zone_info['id']

    dns_records = [
        {'name':'foo', 'type':'AAAA', 'content':'2001:d8b::1'},
        {'name':'foo', 'type':'A', 'content':'192.168.0.1'},
        {'name':'duh', 'type':'A', 'content':'10.0.0.1', 'ttl':120},
        {'name':'bar', 'type':'CNAME', 'content':'foo'},
        {'name':'shakespeare', 'type':'TXT', 'content':"What's in a name? That which we call a rose by any other name ..."}
    ]

    for dns_record in dns_records:
        r = cf.zones.dns_records.post(zone_id, data=dns_record)
    exit(0)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    main()
```

## CLI

All API calls can be called from the command line.
The command will convert domain names on-the-fly into zone_identifier's.

```bash
$ cli4 [-h|--help] [-v|--verbose] [-q|--quiet] [--get|--patch|--post|-put|--delete] [item=value ...] /command...
```

For API calls that need a set of date or parameters passed there is a item=value format.
If you want a numeric value passed, then _==_ can be used to force the value to be treated as a numeric value.

The output from the CLI command is in json format (and human readable).

### Simple CLI examples

 * ```cli4 /user/billing/profile```
 * ```cli4 /user/invites```

 * ```cli4 /zones/:example.com```
 * ```cli4 /zones/:example.com/dnssec```
 * ```cli4 /zones/:example.com/settings/ipv6```
 * ```cli4 --put /zones/:example.com/activation_check```
 * ```cli4 /zones/:example.com/keyless_certificates```

 * ```cli4 /zones/:example.com/analytics/dashboard```

### More complex CLI examples

Here is the creation of a DNS entry, followed by a listing of that entry and then the deletion of that entry.

```bash
$ $ cli4 --post name="test" type="A" content="10.0.0.1" /zones/:example.com/dns_records
{
    "id": "94e028933c87b4bff3c70a42e6daac4f",
    "name": "test.example.com",
    "type": "A",
    "content": "10.0.0.1",
    ...
}
$

$ cli4 /zones/:example.com/dns_records/:test.example.com | jq '{"id":.id,"name":.name,"type":.type,"content":.content}'
{
  "id": "94e028933c87b4bff3c70a42e6daac4f",
  "name": "test.example.com",
  "type": "A",
  "content": "10.0.0.1"
}

$ cli4 --delete /zones/:example.com/dns_records/:test.example.com | jq -c .
{"id":"94e028933c87b4bff3c70a42e6daac4f"}
$
```

There's the ability to handle dns entries with multiple values.
This produces more than one API call within the command.

```
$ cli4 /zones/:example.com/dns_records/:test.example.com | jq -c '.[]|{"id":.id,"name":.name,"type":.type,"content":.content}'
{"id":"bca0c4a5e3691e62841627e4dc3a19ed","name":"test.example.com","type":"A","content":"192.168.0.1"}
{"id":"d94f788e6bf72ba2a54145ad04b34f08","name":"test.example.com","type":"AAAA","content":"2001:d8b::1"}
$
```

Here are the cache purging commands.

```bash
$ cli4 --delete purge_everything=true /zones/:example.com/purge_cache | jq -c .
{"id":"d8afaec3dd2b7f8c1b470e594a21a01d"}
$

$ cli4 --delete files='[http://example.com/css/styles.css]' /zones/:example.com/purge_cache | jq -c .
{"id":"d8afaec3dd2b7f8c1b470e594a21a01d"}
$

$ cli4 --delete files='[http://example.com/css/styles.css,http://example.com/js/script.js]' /zones/:example.com/purge_cache | jq -c .
{"id":"d8afaec3dd2b7f8c1b470e594a21a01d"}
$

$ cli4 --delete tags='[tag1,tag2,tag3]' /zones/:example.com/purge_cache | jq -c .
cli4: /zones/:example.com/purge_cache - 1107 Only enterprise zones can purge by tag.
$
```

A somewhat useful listing of available plans for a specific zone.

```bash
$ cli4 /zones/:example.com/available_plans | jq -c '.[]|{"id":.id,"name":.name}'
{"id":"a577b510288e82b26486fd1df47000ec","name":"Pro Website"}
{"id":"1ac039f6c29b691475c3d74fe588d1ae","name":"Business Website"}
{"id":"94f3b7b768b0458b56d2cac4fe5ec0f9","name":"Enterprise Website"}
{"id":"0feeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee","name":"Free Website"}
$
```

### DNSSEC CLI examples

```bash
$ cli4 /zones/:example.com/dnssec | jq -c '{"status":.status}'
{"status":"disabled"}
$

$ cli4 --patch status=active /zones/:example.com/dnssec | jq -c '{"status":.status}'
{"status":"pending"}
$

$ cli4 /zones/:example.com/dnssec
{
    "algorithm": "13",
    "digest": "41600621c65065b09230ebc9556ced937eb7fd86e31635d0025326ccf09a7194",
    "digest_algorithm": "SHA256",
    "digest_type": "2",
    "ds": "example.com. 3600 IN DS 2371 13 2 41600621c65065b09230ebc9556ced937eb7fd86e31635d0025326ccf09a7194",
    "flags": 257,
    "key_tag": 2371,
    "key_type": "ECDSAP256SHA256",
    "modified_on": "2016-05-01T22:42:15.591158Z",
    "public_key": "mdsswUyr3DPW132mOi8V9xESWE8jTo0dxCjjnopKl+GqJxpVXckHAeF+KkxLbxILfDLUT0rAK9iUzy1L53eKGQ==",
    "status": "pending"
}
$
```

## Implemented API calls

|`GET`   |`PUT`   |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|API call|
|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|:--------|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |        |`DELETE`|/certificates|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/ips|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/organizations|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/organizations/:identifier/firewall/access_rules/rules|
|        |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/organizations/:identifier/invite|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |        |`DELETE`|/organizations/:identifier/invites|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/organizations/:identifier/members|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/organizations/:identifier/railguns|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/organizations/:identifier/railguns/:identifier/zones|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/organizations/:identifier/roles|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/organizations/:identifier/virtual_dns|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/railguns|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/railguns/:identifier/zones|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/user|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/user/billing/history|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/user/billing/profile|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/user/billing/subscriptions/apps|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/user/billing/subscriptions/zones|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/user/firewall/access_rules/rules|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/user/invites|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |`DELETE`|/user/organizations|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/user/virtual_dns|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/zones|
|        |`PUT`   |        |        |        |/zones/:identifier/activation_check|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/zones/:identifier/analytics/colos|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/zones/:identifier/analytics/dashboard|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/zones/:identifier/available_plans|
|        |`PUT`   |        |        |        |/zones/:identifier/custom_certificates/prioritize|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/zones/:identifier/custom_certificates|
|`GET`   |`PUT`   |        |        |        |/zones/:identifier/custom_pages|
|`GET`   |`PUT`   |`POST`  |        |`DELETE`|/zones/:identifier/dns_records|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/firewall/waf/packages/:identifier/groups|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/firewall/waf/packages/:identifier/rules|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/firewall/waf/packages|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/zones/:identifier/firewall/access_rules/rules|
|`GET`   |        |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/zones/:identifier/keyless_certificates|
|`GET`   |`PUT`   |`POST`  |`PATCH` |`DELETE`|/zones/:identifier/pagerules|
|        |        |        |        |`DELETE`|/zones/:identifier/purge_cache|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/zones/:identifier/railguns/:identifier/diagnose|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/railguns|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings|
|`GET`   |        |        |        |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/advanced_ddos|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/always_online|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/browser_cache_ttl|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/browser_check|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/cache_level|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/challenge_ttl|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/development_mode|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/email_obfuscation|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/hotlink_protection|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/ip_geolocation|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/ipv6|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/minify|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/mirage|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/mobile_redirect|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/origin_error_page_pass_thru|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/polish|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/prefetch_preload|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/response_buffering|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/rocket_loader|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/security_header|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/security_level|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/server_side_exclude|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/sort_query_string_for_cache|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/ssl|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/tls_1_2_only|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/tls_client_auth|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/true_client_ip_header|
|`GET`   |        |        |`PATCH` |        |/zones/:identifier/settings/waf|

## Adding extra API calls manually

Extra API calls can be added via the configuration file
```bash
$ cat ~/.cloudflare/cloudflare.cfg
[CloudFlare]
extras =
    /client/v4/command
    /client/v4/command/:command_identifier
    /client/v4/command/:command_identifier/settings
$
```

While it's easy to call anything within Cloudflare's API, it's not very useful to add items in here as they will simply return API URL errors.
Technically, this is only useful for internal testing within Cloudflare.

## Issues

The following error can be caused by an out of date SSL/TLS library and/or out of date Python.

```
/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/requests/packages/urllib3/util/ssl_.py:318: SNIMissingWarning: An HTTPS request has been made, but the SNI (Subject Name Indication) extension to TLS is not available on this platform. This may cause the server to present an incorrect TLS certificate, which can cause validation failures. You can upgrade to a newer version of Python to solve this. For more information, see https://urllib3.readthedocs.org/en/latest/security.html#snimissingwarning.
  SNIMissingWarning
/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/requests/packages/urllib3/util/ssl_.py:122: InsecurePlatformWarning: A true SSLContext object is not available. This prevents urllib3 from configuring SSL appropriately and may cause certain SSL connections to fail. You can upgrade to a newer version of Python to solve this. For more information, see https://urllib3.readthedocs.org/en/latest/security.html#insecureplatformwarning.
  InsecurePlatformWarning
```

The solution can be found [here](https://urllib3.readthedocs.org/en/latest/security.html#insecureplatformwarning) and/or [here](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/35144550/how-to-install-cryptography-on-ubuntu).

## Python 2.x vs 3.x support

As of May/June 2016 the code is now tested againt pylint.
This was required in order to move the codebase into Python 3.x.
The motivation for this came from [Danielle Madeley (danni)](https://github.com/danni).

While the codebase has been edited to run on Python 3.x, there's not been enough Python 3.x testing performed.
If you can help in this regard; please contact the maintainers.

## Credit

This is based on work by [Felix Wong (gnowxilef)](https://github.com/gnowxilef) found [here](https://github.com/cloudflare-api/python-cloudflare-v4).
It has been seriously expanded upon.

## Copyright

Portions copyright [Felix Wong (gnowxilef)](https://github.com/gnowxilef) 2015 and Cloudflare 2016.
